Now we'll talk about component architecture and react.
This is essentially the idea of where you should put your state in your application and how props and
state should interact together.
Our objectives are to pass state to child components as props to to find which components own state
and to use statelets functional components.
First of all how state shared state is always passed from a parent downward to a child component never
up.
And it's always passed down as a prop.
So even though you have state in your parent component the child component gets it as a prop.
And another point here is that states should not be passed to a sibling or a parent.
So you never pass your state up to a parent or sideways to another component next to you.
This is actually fairly hard to do in re-act passing data to your parent or to your sibling.
So the framework is designed in such a way that it makes it difficult to do the wrong thing.
Let's take a look at the example in code
recolor instructor example from the last exercise we had this app component with some state for instructors.
And then we had down here a render method rendering some allies.
So what I want to do is refactor this.
So rather than creating the lies here we use a child's component and then pass state down to that child
component as props.
So at the top here I've created instr. item and that instr. item takes in a name and array of Hobbes's
props and then returns that as an ally.
So let's use this instr. item inside of our app component.
So as you can see we've used this instr. item now and just like we mentioned in the slides before we
are taking the state from this that's data constructors and passing it down to a child component as
props.
So inside this instr. item name will be a prop and hobby's will be a prop.
Now remember these props can never change inside of the component.
So let's see this in action and we'll talk about what happens when when state does change.
So just like before I of the looks like sailing one of the hobby's will be removed again.
Now what's going on here.
Well whenever set state is called render is called and when render is called There's a new new value
for state.
So this does state that instructors will render new instructor items.
Now any instructor item that has different values will get re rendered in the DOM.
So as we saw the instructor item that had different set of hobby's will be taken out of the Dom and
re rendered with the new set of props so props can never change but a component can be unmounted and
remounted with a new value.
If the props do change on a new render
So when you're designing an application let's say your design tic tac toe.
This is just a high level view of that app.
We've got a tic tac toe component and a nav bar component for our application.
Who should own state in this app.
Well you might have implemented it such that this tic tac toe component owns all the state because tic
tac toe is the component that cares about the X's and O's and who won and who lost.
So it kind of makes sense for a lot of state to be there.
But let's say you want to implement a feature where you have a button on your nav bar to restart the
game.
Well restarting the game affects the state of the tic tac toe board.
So now the nav bar to make this feature work would also want some state about the game.
And in this case we've got state here and we also need state here.
And these are two siblings so like we said earlier you can't share state between siblings.
The solution to this problem and a common solution that you run into a lot is that if two components
both need some state well then that state needs to be pushed up to the parent.
The solution is to take the state out of tic tac toe and the parent will then own the state instead
of tic tac toe.
So the app component will own state and pass that data down into the tic tac toe component as props
our key takeaway is that states should always be owned by just one component and that's one of those
things again that's easier said than done when you're first learning.
So let's look at the example of what not to do.
So this is an example of that same instr. item component.
Except this time for whatever reason the instructor item has some event and it wants to modify the state
of that instructor.
Maybe it wants to be able to edit the name.
Or maybe it wants to be able to add a new hobby.
Well when you're first starting out oftentimes people want to do something like this.
This state equals name and name comes from the props and hobbies and hobbies also comes from the props.
So again this is an anti-pattern and react.
You should never ever do this because what you're trying to do here is essentially copy some data that
came in as a prop to state.
And typically this is a good sign that you're duplicating state somewhere and that's always a bad thing.
So again the takeaway here.
Never duplicate your state never assign a prop to your state.
Now let's talk about something that we've avoided because we haven't talked much about state up until
now which is the statelets functional component.
So statelets functional component is implemented using a function rather than a class.
So we're no longer extending component.
We're just writing a function and the function just implements the render method nothing else so there's
no constructor and you can't declare state.
This is an example of a stateless functional component.
So because we don't extend component we don't need to import it.
We can just import re-act from we act and then we're just declaring a function the function always gets
prop's as a parameter and the function that we're declaring implements or render method.
So in this case we're just returning an H1 as our render method that has Hello comma and whatever you
passed and for profs that name.
And just like any other component we also will probably want to export default that component.
So in the stateless functional component we're exporting default greeting which is what we assigned
here.
Let's refactor our example to make it a stateless functional component.
Remember in our example we have this instr. item and we want to make this a stateless functional component.
So the first thing it will do is we'll remove the class so I'll make this a function instead.
And now I want to remove this for now.
I'll get back to it in a sec.
So I'll just put this up here a comment.
And since we're already inside of a functional get rid of render
the last thing to do here is that prop's is now a parameter.
It's just a primer to our normal function.
So we don't need to say this that props that name we just can say Propst that name.
All right there we go.
And now we've got a stateless functional component so we're no longer implementing in class we're just
implementing a function that function gets props as a parameter.
And we can use props inside of our function here.
Now what if we still want to use Propp types where we can still do that we just can't use static anymore
because it's not a class.
So the way to add Propp types is just to add it afterwards like we saw before
and now copy this over
and there we go.
We react to that same component to be a stateless functional component.
So generally speaking it's a good idea to turn any component that doesn't have any state into a stateless
functional component in the future.
This may actually provide some performance benefits.
And I think it's just a little cleaner because you don't have so much boilerplate you have to deal with
all in this video by saying that thinking in re-act takes a while to master.
So if it doesn't make sense to you intuitively right away don't get discouraged at this point.
I would say check out this blog post.
It's called thinking and reacts by one of the creators of react and it's a great sort of breakdown of
how you should think about solving problems in react.
So read that an assignment and next up we'll talk about a few more gotchas with set state.